% dtas-player_sink_examples(7) dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-player_sink_examples - sink examples for dtas-player

=head1 SYNOPSIS

dtas-ctl sink ed SINKNAME command='...'

dtas-sinkedit SINKNAME

=head1 EXAMPLES

=head2 Streaming Ogg-Vorbis to Icecast

To use L<oggfwd(1)> and Icecast, the following sink works.
Warning: the following example will likely expose your Icecast source
password to any local users on the system.

    # set HOST/PORT/PASS via env or directly in the command
    ---
    name: oggfwd
    command: sox $SOXFMT - -t ogg - | oggfwd $HOST $PORT $PASS /dtas.ogg

=head2 Stream to a remote host via ssh

Alternatively, if you have L<play(1)> installed on any remote host and
a slow connection using Ogg-Vorbis:

    # Long lines in YAML can be broken up and the subsequent lines
    # indented with by spaces
    ---
    name: ssh-remote
    command: sox $SOXFMT - -t ogg - |
      ssh $HOST env AUDIODEV=... play -q -t ogg -

    # Note the use of env(1), as the "env" parameter for the sink may not be
    # passed via ssh to the remote $HOST depending on the ssh_config(5)
    # configuration.

If you have a fast connection, there is no need to encode using
Ogg-Vorbis.  Alternatively, you may also use "flac" instead of "ogg" in
the above Ogg-Vorbis example.

    ---
    name: ssh-remote
    command: ssh $HOST env AUDIODEV=... play -q $SOXFMT -

=head2 Dump audio to a file during playback

To configure a dumper sink (in addition to the "default" sink).  Note
the use of $SOXFMT, this will be automatically expanded to match the
internal format of the player.  The internal format of the player is
described in L<dtas-player_protocol(7)>.

    $ dtas-ctl sink ed dumper command='sox $SOXFMT - /tmp/dump.sox'

Non-"default" sinks are not active by default, but may be made active.

    $ dtas-ctl sink ed dumper active=true

Changing it again to "active=false" will deactivate the sink.

=head2 Apply a short delay to low frequencies to improve time-alignment

See L<dtas-xdelay(1)>.

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<http://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<ftp://lists.gnu.org/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2016 all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dtas-ctl(1)>, L<dtas-sinkedit(1)>, L<dtas-xdelay(1)>,
L<sox(1)>, L<play(1)>, L<oggfwd(1)>, L<ssh(1)>, L<ssh_config(5)>, L<env(1)>
