% L<dtas-console(1)> dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-console - rudimentary curses console client for dtas-player

=head1 SYNOPSIS

dtas-console

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dtas-console displays the elapsed decoder time of the track, which can be
used as an approximation of the current playback time of a track.

It cannot display an accurate playback time due to variable buffering
in the sinks and pipes.

See L<dtas-player_protocol(7)> for a detailed description of the protocol.

=head1 KEYBOARD CONTROL

Key bindings are inspired partially by L<mplayer(1)>

=over

=item 'j'/'k' - seek backward/forward 5 seconds

=item LEFT/RIGHT - seek backward/forward 10 seconds

=item UP/DOWN - seek forward/backward 1 minute

=item PGUP/PGDWN - seek forward/backward 10 minutes

=item SPACE - toggle play/pause state of the playback

=item 'p'/'P' - decrease/increase timer resolution

=item BACKSPACE - seek to the beginning of the track

=item 7/8 - decrease/increase ReplayGain preamp

=item 9/0 - decrease/increase software volume

=item '=' - set software volume to 1.0 (no adjustment)

=item 'm' - mute set software volume to 0.0 (mute)

=item 'f'/'F' - decrease/increase ReplayGain fallback_gain value

=item 'r'/'R' - cycle forward/backwards through ReplayGain modes

=item 'q'/Ctrl-C - exit dtas-console

=item 'o' - toggle display between HH:MM:SS and absolute seconds

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

DTAS_PLAYER_SOCK - the path to the dtas-player control socket.
This defaults to ~/.dtas/player.sock

=head1 CAVEATS

Increasing timer resolution increases the number of CPU wakeups and
power consumption.   This defeats the efforts of dtas-player
configurations which use large buffers (especially in the sink) to
reduce wakeups and power consumption.

In rare cases (or poorly-configured systems), increased wakeups from
dtas-console will also increase contention with the sound card,
negatively affecting audio quality even if CPU utilization is not
a problem.

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<https://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<ftp://lists.gnu.org/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2016 all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dtas-player(1)>, L<dtas-player_protocol(7)>, L<dtas-ctl(1)>,
L<dtas-sinkedit(1)>, L<dtas-sourceedit(1)>
