% dtas-sourceedit(1) dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-sourceedit - edit parameters of a source decoder

=head1 SYNOPSYS

dtas-sourceedit {sox | av | ff}

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dtas-sourceedit spawns an editor to allow editing of a source as a YAML file.
See L<dtas-player_protocol(7)> for details on SOURCEARGS.  If standard input is
a pipe or file, it is parsed as YAML and fed to the L<dtas-player(1)> instance
non-interactively.  This is useful for loading various profiles from the
filesystem.

On Linux machines with the sleepy_penguin RubyGem installed, L<inotify(7)>
is used to monitor the file for changes while the text exitor is running.
Each time a user finishes saving a file, changes are committed immediately.
This behavior may be disabled by using the -N or --no-watch command-line
switch.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -N, --no-watch

Disable L<inotify(7)> support on Linux systems

=item -n, --dry-run

Only print commands which would be sent to dtas-player

=item -V, --verbose

Print out commands as they are sent to dtas-player

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

Invoking dtas-sourceedit will spawn your favorite text editor on "sox":

	$ dtas-sourceedit sox

To load an existing YAML profile for sox.  saved.yml could be the output
of a previous "dtas-ctl source cat sox" invocation:

	$ dtas-sourceedit sox < saved.yml

To change the way dtas-player calls avconv (part of libav):

	$ dtas-sourceedit av

To change the way dtas-player calls ffmpeg (lightly-tested):

	$ dtas-sourceedit ff

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

VISUAL / EDITOR - your favorite *nix text editor, defaults to 'vi' if unset.

DTAS_PLAYER_SOCK - the path to the dtas-player control socket.
This defaults to ~/.dtas/player.sock

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<http://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<ftp://lists.gnu.org/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2016 all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<http://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dtas-player(1)>, L<dtas-player_protocol(7)>, L<dtas-ctl(1)>
