% dtas-env(7) dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-env - environment variables used through DTAS

=head1 DESCRIPTION

As dtas uses Bourne shell and exposes it to users, dtas should have
a cohesive set of common environment variables across its audio
production and playback environments.  This attempts to document
them.  Most of these environments are set and managed by dtas
itself, but users editing commands (e.g. via L<dtas-sourcedit(1)>)
should be aware of them.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item ECAFMT

A snippet of command-line switches for ecasound describing
audio format parameters (such as word length, channels, sample rate),
see L<dtas-player_protocol(7)> for more info. (e.g. "-fs32_le,2,44100")

=item INFILE

The primary input file for playback or processing. (e.g. "/path/to/ex.flac")

=item RGFX

The sox effect used for applying ReplayGain compensation.
Only used during playback in dtas-player.  (e.g. "gain -6.0").
Removing this prevents ReplayGain from working and may damage
playback equipment with loudly mastered music.

=item SOXFMT

A snippet of command-line switches for sox describing
audio format parameters (such as word length, channels, sample rate),
see L<dtas-player_protocol(7)> for more info. (e.g. "-ts32 -c2 -r44100")

=item TRIMFX

The sox effect used for seeking during playback with dtas-player
and track offsets for dtas-splitfx.  (e.g. "trim 36000s")

Additionally, L<dtas-splitfx(1)> documents more environment variables
which are not used elsewhere.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT FOR OTHER EXECUTABLES

By virtue of running other programs, dtas indirectly uses many
commonly-accepted environment variables such as EDITOR / VISUAL for
selecting a text editor, and SOX_OPTS, AUDIODEV, AUDIODRIVER for L<sox(1)>
and L<play(1)> commands and LADSPA_PATH for anything using LADSPA plugins
(including sox).  The TMPDIR environment variable controls where
temporary files are placed for most programs.

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<https://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2020 all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>
