% dtas-sinkedit(1) dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-sinkedit - edit the command and environment of a sink

=head1 SYNOPSYS

dtas-sinkedit SINKNAME

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dtas-sinkedit spawns an editor to allow editing of a sink as a YAML file.
See L<dtas-player_protocol(7)> for details on SINKARGS.

On Linux machines,  L<inotify(7)>
is used to monitor the file for changes while the text editor is running.
Each time a user finishes saving a file, changes are committed immediately.
This behavior may be disabled by using the -N or --no-watch command-line
switch.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -N, --no-watch

Disable L<inotify(7)> support on Linux systems

=item -n, --dry-run

Only print commands which would be sent to dtas-player

=item -V, --verbose

Print out commands as they are sent to dtas-player

=back

=head1 EXAMPLES

To get a list of existing sink names

	$ dtas-ctl ls

Invoking dtas-sinkedit will spawn your favorite text editor on a
given SINKNAME:

	$ dtas-sinkedit SINKNAME

If SINKNAME was not listed, it will be created (in an inactive state).
Successfully exiting your text editor will send the changes to the
running dtas-player.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

VISUAL / EDITOR - your favorite *nix text editor, defaults to 'vi' if unset.

DTAS_PLAYER_SOCK - the path to the dtas-player control socket.
This defaults to ~/.dtas/player.sock

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<https://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2020 all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dtas-player(1)>, L<dtas-player_protocol(7)>, L<dtas-ctl(1)>
