% dtas-tl(1) dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-tl - tracklist manipulation for dtas-player (development)

=head1 SYNOPSYS

dtas-tl [COMMANDS]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dtas-tl provides utility functions for manipulating the tracklist of the
dtas-player (not the queue, the tracklist is separate from the queue).
It is mainly intended as a development tool and will likely go away in
the future or have its functionality merged into another tool (or MPRIS
client).

=head1 COMMANDS

=over

=item aac - B<A>dd tracks B<A>fter B<C>urrent track in the tracklist

=item addhead - add tracks to the beginning of the tracklist

=item addtail - add tracks to the end of the tracklist

=item consume [BOOLEAN] - show, enable, or disable consume mode

Enabling "consume" mode causes tracks to be removed when they are
done playing (or skipped).

=item current - display the current track, "NONE" if not playing

=item current-id - display the TRACKID of the current track

"NONE" if not playing

=item cat - display a newline-delimited list of TRACK_ID=PATH output

=item clear - remove all tracks from the tracklist

=item edit - spawn an editor to allow editing the tracklist as a text file

See EDITING for more information.

=item goto TRACKID [POS]

Play TRACKID immediately, optionally seek to POS
TRACKID may be looked up via cat, and POS should be a timestamp in
HH:MM:SS.FRAC format.

=item reto REGEXP [POS]

Play first track with path matching REGEXP immediately,
optionally seek to POS.  POS should be a timestamp in HH:MM:SS.FRAC format.

=item next - play the next track in the tracklist

=item prev - play the previous track in the tracklist

=item prune - cull non-existent pathnames from the tracklist

=item repeat 1 - repeat the current track

=item repeat false - disable repeat

=item repeat true - enable repeat of the whole tracklist

=item shuffle [BOOLEAN] - show, enable, or disable random playback

=back

See L<dtas-player_protocol(7)> for a detailed description of the protocol.

=head1 EXAMPLES

display the current tracklist

        $ dtas-tl cat

to add an entire directory of FLAC files

        $ dtas-tl addtail /path/to/directory/*.flac

to skip forward in the tracklist

        $ dtas-tl next

to skip backwards in the tracklist

        $ dtas-tl prev

=head1 EDITING

It is possible to edit the player tracklist from your favorite text
editor.  Existing lines denoting tracks may be rearranged, deleted,
copied or entirely new lines with path names (without a trailing
"=TRACK_ID") may be added.

Changes to the tracklist are sent to the player when the user exits the
editor.  This functionality only works when there is one user editing
the tracklist at a time, and when no files in the tracklist contain rare
newline characters.

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

VISUAL / EDITOR - your favorite *nix text editor, defaults to 'vi' if unset.

DTAS_PLAYER_SOCK - the path to the dtas-player control socket.
This defaults to ~/.dtas/player.sock

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<https://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dtas-player(1)>, L<dtas-player_protocol(7)>, L<dtas-ctl(1)>
