% dtas-xdelay(1) dtas user manual

=head1 NAME

dtas-xdelay - play audio with a crossover delay

=head1 SYNOPSYS

dtas-xdelay [OPTIONS] INPUT1 INPUT2 DELAY

=head1 DESCRIPTION

dtas-xdelay will delay an audio band by a given delay (in seconds or
fractions thereof).  This can be useful for tuning a sub/sat speaker
system.  It is intended for use a dtas-player sink command as displayed
in the synopsis.

The INPUT arguments (/dev/fd/lo and /dev/fd/hi) are automatically
changed by dtas-player to match the given file descriptors of the pipes.

Both descriptors receive the same audio data, but will be split using a
Linkwitz-Riley crossover.  The high-band (second argument) will be
delayed by default.

=head1 EXAMPLE

To set this via dtas-player to delay the high frequencies by 20ms.

	dtas-ctl sink ed SINKNAME \
	   command='dtas-xdelay /dev/fd/lo /dev/fd/hi 0.020'

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item -x, --crossover-frequency FREQUENCY

Frequency at which to set the crossover.  This defaults to 80 (Hz).

=item -l, --lowpass-delay

Delay the lowpass frequency instead of the highpass one.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT

=over

=item SOXFMT, CHANNELS

These environment variables are automatically set if
used as a dtas-player sink

=item DTAS_PLAYER_SOCK - the path to the dtas-player control socket

This defaults to ~/.dtas/player.sock

=item AUDIODEV, AUDIODRIVER

These influence the device/driver used by L<play(1)>.
Consult L<play(1)> for details.

=item SOX_OPTS

This influences options passed to L<sox(1)> or L<play(1)>
Consult L<sox(1)> for details.

=back

=head1 NOTES

The author of this (Eric Wong) knows little about signal processing and
is just parroting things he's learned on the sox documentation and
mailing list.  Corrections to the L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org> mailing list
are greatly appreciated.

=head1 CONTACT

All feedback welcome via plain-text mail to: L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

Mailing list archives available at L<https://80x24.org/dtas-all/>
and L<https://lists.gnu.org/archive/html/dtas-all/>

No subscription is necessary to post to the mailing list.

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright 2013-2016 all contributors L<mailto:dtas-all@nongnu.org>

License: GPL-3.0+ L<https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.txt>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<dtas-player(1)>, L<dtas-player_protocol(7)>, L<dtas-ctl(1)>,
L<sox(1)>, L<play(1)>
